documented plugin documentation on documenting (#1219)
ansible/ansible-documentation: docs/docsite/rst/dev_guide/plugins_documenting.rst

.. _plugins_documenting:

*******************************
Plugin format and documentation
*******************************

> Not all plugins can be documented, but those that can (`documentable <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/blob/devel/lib/ansible/constants.py#L111>`), follow a specific common format, except modules that have their own extended format. Also, some of these plugin types (`configurable <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/blob/devel/lib/ansible/constants.py#L109>`) use the documentation to build their argument validation and type casting, unlike modules that require a separate 'args_spec'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not all plugins can be documented, but those that can (`documentable <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/blob/fc5931c90beabea7b62747d2bc3038572c732f11/lib/ansible/constants.py#L77>`), follow a specific common format, except modules that have their own extended format. Also, some of these plugin types (`configurable <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/blob/fc5931c90beabea7b62747d2bc3038572c732f11/lib/ansible/constants.py#L75>`) use the documentation to build their argument validation and type casting, unlike modules that require a separate 'args_spec'.
```

.. _plugins_documenting:

*******************************
Plugin format and documentation
*******************************

> Not all plugins can be documented, but those that can (`documentable <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/blob/devel/lib/ansible/constants.py#L111>`), follow a specific common format, except modules that have their own extended format. Also some of these plugin types (`configurable <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/blob/devel/lib/ansible/constants.py#L109>`) use the documentation to build their argument validation and type casting, unlike modules that require a separate 'args_spec'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not all plugins can be documented, but those that can (`documentable <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/blob/devel/lib/ansible/constants.py#L111>`), follow a specific common format, except modules that have their own extended format. Also, some of these plugin types (`configurable <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/blob/devel/lib/ansible/constants.py#L109>`) use the documentation to build their argument validation and type casting, unlike modules that require a separate 'args_spec'.
```

This document will describe how the plugin configuration works in general, excluding modules, which have their own `documentation reference:developing_modules_documenting`.

.. note:: While most plugins support having the documentation in YAML format inside the same Python code file, filters and tests also support an 'adjacent' YAML file as both of those plugins also support having multiple of them defined in the same file.
 With YAML files, the examples below are easy to use by removing Python quoting and substituting ``=`` for ``:``, for example ``DOCUMENTATION = r''' ... '''` ` to ``DOCUMENTATION: ...`` and removing closing quotes. :ref:`adjacent_yaml_doc`

Every Ansible plugin must be written in Python, with modules being the main exception, also they must begin with several standard sections in a particular order, followed by the code. The sections in order are:

.. contents::
   :depth: 1
   :local:

.. note:: Why don't the imports go first?

>   Keen Python programmers may notice that contrary to PEP 8's advice we don't put ``imports`` at the top of the file. This is because the ``DOCUMENTATION`` through ``RETURN`` sections are essentially extra docstrings for the file. The imports are placed after these special variables for the same reason as PEP 8 puts the imports after the introductory comments and docstrings. This keeps the active parts of the code together and the pieces which are purely informational apart. The decision to exclude E402 is based on readability (which is what PEP 8 is about). Documentation strings in a plugin are much more similar to module level docstrings. Placing the imports below this documentation and closer to the code, consolidates and groups all related code in a congruent manner to improve readability, debugging and understanding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Keen Python programmers may notice that contrary to PEP 8's advice we don't put ``imports`` at the top of the file. This is because the ``DOCUMENTATION`` through ``RETURN`` sections are essentially extra docstrings for the file. The imports are placed after these special variables for the same reason as PEP 8 puts the imports after the introductory comments and docstrings. This keeps the active parts of the code together and the pieces which are purely informational apart. The decision to exclude E402 is based on readability (which is what PEP 8 is about). Documentation strings in a plugin are much more similar to module-level docstrings. Placing the imports below this documentation and closer to the code, consolidates and groups all related code in a congruent manner to improve readability, debugging and understanding.
```

.. _plugins_shebang_and_encoding:

Python shebang & UTF-8 coding
===============================

> Plugins in general won't use a shebang as they are imported into Ansible's engine and not executed as a script (unlike modules).
> So your first line will normally be the encoding::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike modules, shebangs are not used by plugins since they are imported into Ansible's engine rather than being run as a script.
So your first line will normally be the encoding::
```

    # -*- coding: utf-8 -*-

.. _plugins_copyright:

Copyright and license
=====================

After the UTF-8 encoding notice, add a `copyright line <https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/copyright-notices-in-open-source-software-projects/>`_ with the original copyright holder and a license declaration. The license declaration should be ONLY one line, not the full GPL prefix.::

    # -*- coding: utf-8 -*-

    # Copyright: Contributors to the Ansible project
    # GNU General Public License v3.0+ (see COPYING or https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.txt)

Additions to the module (for example, rewrites) are not permitted to add additional copyright lines other than the default copyright statement if missing::

    # Copyright: Contributors to the Ansible project

Any legal review will include the source control history, so an exhaustive copyright header is not necessary.
Please do not include a copyright year. If the existing copyright statement includes a year, do not edit the existing copyright year. Any existing copyright header should not be modified without permission from the copyright author.

.. _plugins_documentation_block:

DOCUMENTATION block
===================

> The 3rd section is the ``DOCUMENTATION`` block. Ansible's plugin documentation is generated from the ``DOCUMENTATION`` blocks, both for the online site and the ``ansible-doc`` output. The ``DOCUMENTATION`` block must be valid YAML. You may find it easier to start writing your ``DOCUMENTATION`` string in an :ref:`editor with YAML syntax highlighting <other_tools_and_programs>` before you include it in your Python file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next section is the ``DOCUMENTATION`` block. Ansible's plugin documentation is generated from the ``DOCUMENTATION`` blocks, both for the online site and the ``ansible-doc`` output. The ``DOCUMENTATION`` block must be valid YAML. You may find it easier to start writing your ``DOCUMENTATION`` string in an :ref:`editor with YAML syntax highlighting <other_tools_and_programs>` before you include it in your Python file.
```

> Plugin documentation should briefly and accurately define what each plugin is meant to accomplish and what and each option does. Documentation should be written for broad audience--readable both by experts and non-experts.
>     * Descriptions should always start with a capital letter and end with a full stop. Consistency always helps.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Plugin documentation should briefly and accurately define what each plugin is meant to accomplish and what and each option does. Documentation should be written for a broad audience--readable both by experts and non-experts.
    * Descriptions should always start with a capital letter and end with a full stop. Consistency always helps.

```

* You can use ``ansible-doc -t <plugin_type> <plugin_name>`` to view your documentation at the command line. Any parsing errors will be obvious - you can view details by adding ``-vvv`` to the command.
* You should also :ref:`test the HTML output <testing_plugin_documentation>` of your plugin documentation.

Documentation fields
--------------------

All fields in the ``DOCUMENTATION`` block are lower-case. All fields are required unless specified otherwise:

:name:

  * The name of the plugin.
  * For most plugins, it must be the same as the file name, without the ``.py`` extension.
  * For filters and tests it must match the name used to invoke them in a template.

:short_description:

  * The ``short_description`` is displayed by ``ansible-doc -l`` without any category grouping,
    so it needs enough detail to explain the module's purpose without the context of the directory structure in which it lives.
  * Unlike ``description:``, ``short_description`` should not have a trailing period/full stop.

:description:

  * A detailed description (generally two or more sentences).
  * Must be written in full sentences, in other words, with capital letters and periods/full stops.

>   * Shouldn't mention the plugin name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Should not mention the plugin name.
```

  * Make use of multiple entries rather than using one long paragraph.

>   * Don't quote complete values unless it is required by YAML.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Do not quote complete values unless it is required by YAML.
```

:version_added:

  * The version of the collection when the plugin was added. In the case of adding to Ansible core, that version is used instead.
  * This is a string, and not a float, for example, ``version_added: '2.1.0'``.

:author:

  * Name of the author in the form ``First Last (@GitHubID)``.
  * Use a multi-line list if there is more than one author.

>   * Don't use quotes as it should not be required by YAML.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Do not use quotes as it should not be required by YAML.
```
